Added compute doc, adding other operations docs (e.g. backups) (#167)
openforcefield/alchemiscale: docs/compute.rst

    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openforcefield/alchemiscale/$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION/devtools/configs/synchronous-compute-settings.yaml

***********
Single-host
***********

To deploy a compute service (or multiple services) to a single host, we recommend one of two routes.
* installing all dependencies in a ``conda``/``mamba`` environment
* running the services as Docker containers, with all dependencies baked in

.. _compute_conda:

Deploying with conda/mamba
==========================

To deploy via ``conda``/``mamba``, first create an environment (we recommend ``mamba`` for its performance)::

    mamba env create -n alchemiscale-compute-$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openforcefield/alchemiscale/$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION/devtools/conda-envs/alchemiscale-compute.yml

Once created, activate the environment in your current shell::

    conda activate alchemiscale-compute-$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION

Then start a compute service, assuming your configuration file is in the current working directory, with::

    alchemiscale compute synchronous -c synchronous-compute-settings.yaml

.. _compute_docker:

> Deploying with Docker

Reviewer: Future TODO: Add building an apptainer image to our CI so we can use apptainer/singularity for compute deployments

Author: Yes, that would be very helpful! Would avoid needing to deploy compute with `mamba` on HPC environments, for example, if singulary can be used.

Author: Can you create an issue articulating your vision for this?

Reviewer: https://github.com/openforcefield/alchemiscale/pull/170

Author: Awesome, I'll take a look at this next! That was fast!!!

=====================

Assuming your configuration file is in the current working directory, to deploy with Docker, you might use::

    docker run --gpus all --rm -v $(pwd):/mnt ghcr.io/openforcefield/alchemiscale-compute:$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION compute synchronous -c /mnt/synchronous-compute-settings.yaml

See the `official Docker documentation on GPU use`_ for details on how to specify individual GPUs for each container you launch.
It may also make sense to apply constraints to the number of CPUs available to each container to avoid oversubscription.

.. _official Docker documentation on GPU use: https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/#gpu

***********
HPC cluster
***********

To deploy compute services to an HPC cluster, we recommend submitting them as individual jobs to the HPC cluster's scheduler.
Different clusters feature different schedulers (e.g. SLURM, LSF, TORQUE/PBS, etc.), and vary widely in their hardware and queue configurations.
You will need to tailor your specific approach to the constraints of the cluster you are targeting.

The following is an example of the *content* of a script submitted to an HPC cluster. 

> We have left off the top matter that is specific to the queueing system, and certain environment variables (e.g. ``JOBID``, ``JOBINDEX``) should be tailored to those presented by the queueing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have omitted queuing system specific options, flags, and certain environment variables (e.g. ``JOBID``, ``JOBINDEX``) which should be tailored to those presented by the queuing system.
```

Note that for this case we've made use of a ``conda``/``mamba``-based deployment, detailed above in :ref:`compute_conda`::

    # don't limit stack size
    ulimit -s unlimited
    

>     # make scratch space
>     mkdir -p /scratch/${USER}/${JOBID}-${JOBINDEX}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # make scratch space (path will be HPC system dependent)
    ALCHEM_SCRATCH=/scratch/${USER}/${JOBID}-${JOBINDEX}
    mkdir -p $ALCHEM_SCRATCH
```

    
    # activate environment
    conda activate alchemiscale-compute-$ALCHEMISCALE_VERSION
    
    # create a YAML file with specific substitutions
    # each service in this job can share the same config
    envsubst < settings.yaml > configs/settings.${JOBID}-${JOBINDEX}.yaml
    
    # start up a single service
    alchemiscale compute synchronous -c configs/settings.${LSB_JOBID}-${LSB_JOBINDEX}.yaml
    
    # remove scratch space

>     rm -r /scratch/${USER}/${JOBID}-${JOBINDEX}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    rm -r $ALCHEM_SCRATCH
```

The ``envsubst`` line in particular will make a config specific to this job, with environment variable substitutions.
A subset of options used in the config file are given below::

    ---
    # options for service initialization
    init:
    
      # Filesystem path to use for `ProtocolDAG` `shared` space.
      shared_basedir: "/scratch/${USER}/${LSB_JOBID}-${LSB_JOBINDEX}/shared"
    
      # Filesystem path to use for `ProtocolUnit` `scratch` space.
      scratch_basedir: "/scratch/${USER}/${LSB_JOBID}-${LSB_JOBINDEX}/scratch"
    
      # Path to file for logging output; if not set, logging will only go to
      # STDOUT.
      logfile: /home/${USER}/logs/service.${JOBID}.log
    
    # options for service execution
    start:
    
      # Max number of Tasks to execute before exiting. If `null`, the service will
      # have no task limit.
      max_tasks: 1
    

>       # Max number of seconds to run before exiting. If `null`, the service will

Reviewer: Does this mean how long it will sit idle in the queue waiting for a job before it exits?

Author: Correct!

      # have no time limit.
      max_time: 300

For HPC job-based execution, we recommend limiting the number of ``Task``\s the compute service executes to a small number, preferrably 1, and setting a time limit beyond which the compute service will shut down.
With this configuration, when a compute service comes up and claims a ``Task``, it will have nearly the full walltime of its job to execute it.

> Any compute service that fails to claim a ``Task`` will shut itself down, and the job will exit, avoiding waste and a scenario where a ``Task`` is claimed without enough walltime left on the job to complete it.

Reviewer: So if I have a walltime of 24 hours, how long should I set `max_time`?

Author: It's honestly up to the operator what is acceptable, but I still think keeping `max_time` short (e.g. 5 mins like this example) avoids both waste and a `Task` having less walltime to work with if it lands on a compute service that has been idling. Does this make sense?

Reviewer: Yes!
